Reviews & Opinions in Emergency Medicine corrects IE6 width calculation Wednesday, January 6, 2016 Bronchiolitis... The "Atomic Cold" Disease In the ED we see kids with coughs and colds every day. Among those, a number of children have bronchiolitis. Few diseases have a greater effect on the health of young children than viral lower respiratory tract illness. Approximately 800,000 children in the United States, or approximately 20% of the annual birth cohort, require outpatient medical attention during the first year of life because of illness caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). The simplest way to think about this disease that will help identifying children with bronchiolitis is this: Imagine an infant (or toddler) with a cold, pouring boogers from his nose, who looks sicker than the usual "cold". Yes... that's it! Think about it as the "Atomic Cold" RSV accounts for 50 to 80% of all hospitalizations for bronchiolitis during seasonal epidemics in North America. Although the clinical features of bronchiolitis due to different viruses are generally indistinguishable, some differences in the severity of disease have been reported. For example, it has been observed that rhinovirus-associated bronchiolitis may result in a shorter length of hospitalization than bronchiolitis that is attributable to RSV. Differences in the response to medical intervention have not been identified consistently among children with bronchiolitis caused by different viruses.  [if gte mso 9]> 0 0 1 239 1367 Sinc 11 3 1603 14.0 Normal 0 false false false EN-US JA X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:12.0pt; font-family:Cambria; mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;}
