
 
 
 
 
 
  BEGIN GADWP v4.9.2 Universal Tracking - https://deconf.com/google-analytics-dashboard-wordpress/  
 
  END GADWP Universal Tracking  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search for: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Original Kings of County 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main menu 
 Skip to content 
 Home 
 Columns 
 
 Archived Columns 
 
 Announcements 
 From Our Annals 
 Journal Club 
 Legal Matters 
 Legends of Medicine 
 Policy Monster 
 TEACH ONE! 
 The Homunculus 
 Trauma Drama 
 Uncategorized 
 Wednesday Wrap-up 
 West of the Hudson 
 
 Activated Charcoal 
 Board Review 
 Boundless in Brooklyn 
 Cases, Controversy, and Conversation 
 Case of the Month 
 CCM Mini-Fellowship Review 
 EM-Critical Care 
 EM…From the IM Prespective 
 EM Images 
 Morning Report 
 Peds In A Pod 
 Pharm to Table 
 Radical radiology 
 Rhythm Nation 
 Save of the Month 
 Staten Island Corner 
 US VS THEM 
 Xray Vision 
 
 Lectures 
 About Us 
 Disclaimer 
    #site-navigation  
 
 
  .c12  
  #header.row  
 
 
 
 
 Peds In A Pod 
 Peds in a POD- Why does it keep coming back? 
 
        by  PEM Fellows  •  February 9, 2016  •  0 Comments   
 
 
 Your Case: 
 A previously healthy, 8 year-old Hispanic boy presents to the ED with a recurrent rash on his right posterior thigh. The involved area always becomes “infected” whenever the patient develops a fever, and this is the 3 rd  and most severe episode. 
 1 st  episode – 2 years ago, the family was still living in Mexico, and at that time the rash was diagnosed as an insect bite. Mom empirically treated with topical antibiotics. Within a week, the lesion resolved, but the patient was left with a small, dark, discolored area in its place. 
 2 nd  episode  – 1 year ago, he had an episode of fever and diarrhea with a red, pruritic lesion on right posterior thigh. Again, a topical antibiotic was placed on the area. After resolution of the illness, the redness improved, but he was left with an even larger dark discoloration at the site. 
 3 rd  episode – 5 days ago, the patient developed fever and URI symptoms. On Day 2 of illness, a red, pruritic, blistering area started developing on right posterior thigh. He was diagnosed in ED with cellulitis and sent home with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. On Day 3, the fever and URI symptoms began to resolve, but the rash was progressing despite compliance with the antibiotic. 
 Today, the rash looks like this: 
 
 Physical Exam – Well appearing, afebrile. Lesion as shown above, non-tender, negative Nikolsky sign, no fluctuance, no mucous membrane involvement, no other skin lesions. 
 Labs – CBC/CRP/CMP/LFT- all normal 
 What is your differential diagnosis? Fixed drug reactions, Insect bites, Bruises, Focal skin infections, Contact dermatitis, Child abuse, Bullous skin eruption, Burn/child abuse, Bullous erythema multiforme, Bullous pemphigoid, Bullous reaction to insect bites (most commonly fleas), Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome, Bullous impetigo or cellulitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis 
 
   
 What is the most likely diagnosis? 
 Fixed Drug Reaction 
 
   
 What you need to know  
 
 The most reliable and characteristic finding of a  fixed drug eruption  is the recurrence of the lesion at the same site, which can be anywhere on the skin or mucosa. 
 History-taking is key 
 Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and acetaminophen are commonly implicated in fixed drug eruptions. 
 The mainstay of treatment is to prevent recurrence of the eruption by avoiding the offending drug 
 
   
 References  
 Cossey, M. et al. Visual Diagnosis:8-Year-Old Boy With Recurrent Rash.  Pediatrics in Review   2000;36;4 
   
   
 The following two tabs change content below. Bio Latest Posts 
 
 
 
 
 PEM Fellows  /.ts-fab-header  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Latest posts by PEM Fellows  ( see all ) 
 
 
 
 When Orange is the New Black – “Blurry Eyes”  - May 11, 2016 
 
 
 A Pediatric Neurology Case. . . you will get one of these at some point!  - April 14, 2016 
 
 
 Think outside the box- It can be exotically toxic! – the Perspective of a Newbie Doctor  - March 14, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Share this: Email Twitter Print 
 
 Related 
    .entry-content  
 
 Tags:  pediatrics   rash    .entry  
  #post-10120  
 
 Post navigation 
 ← Bored of Veins and Bones – Review 
 Bored of Transfusions, Tacos, and ‘TRALIs’ – Review → 
  #posts-pagination  
 
 
 Leave a Reply  Cancel reply   
 Your email address will not be published. Comment   Name   
 Email   
 Website   
   
 
   Notify me of follow-up comments by email.   Notify me of new posts by email.   
  #respond  
  #comments .comments-area  
  #primary  
 
 Follow Us!  BEGIN SOCIAL MEDIA CONTACTS  
 
 
  END SOCIAL MEDIA CONTACTS  
 Subscribe! 
 
 Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. 
   
 
							Email Address						 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search the Site 
 
 Search for: 
 
 
 
 Top Posts & Pages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								Rhythm Nation November 22, 2015							 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								EM-Critical Care: Listen to the Bass Go Boom...							 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								Case of the Month - December 2016							 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								So bored, I climbed Kilimanjaro (Altitude Sickness)							 
 
 
 
 Lecture Library   
 Login 
 
 
 Username 
 
 
 
 Password 
 
 
  Remember Me 
 
 
 
 
 Register Lost Password 
 February 2016 
 
 
 M 
 T 
 W 
 T 
 F 
 S 
 S 
 
 
 
 
 « Jan 
   
 Mar » 
 
 
 
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
 
 
 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
 
 
 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
 
 
 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
 
 
 29 
   
 
 
    #secondary.widget-area  
    #main.row  
    #page.grid  
 
 
 
 
 Copyright © 2016  The Original Kings of County . All Rights Reserved. 
 The Magazine Basic Theme by  bavotasan.com . 
  .c12  
  .row  
  #footer-content.grid  
  #footer  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Send to Email Address 
 
 Your Name 
 
 Your Email Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cancel 
 
				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			 
 
				Email check failed, please try again			 
 
				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
