
 
 
 
 
 
  BEGIN GADWP v4.9.2 Universal Tracking - https://deconf.com/google-analytics-dashboard-wordpress/  
 
  END GADWP Universal Tracking  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search for: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Original Kings of County 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main menu 
 Skip to content 
 Home 
 Columns 
 
 Archived Columns 
 
 Announcements 
 From Our Annals 
 Journal Club 
 Legal Matters 
 Legends of Medicine 
 Policy Monster 
 TEACH ONE! 
 The Homunculus 
 Trauma Drama 
 Uncategorized 
 Wednesday Wrap-up 
 West of the Hudson 
 
 Activated Charcoal 
 Board Review 
 Boundless in Brooklyn 
 Cases, Controversy, and Conversation 
 Case of the Month 
 CCM Mini-Fellowship Review 
 EM-Critical Care 
 EM…From the IM Prespective 
 EM Images 
 Morning Report 
 Peds In A Pod 
 Pharm to Table 
 Radical radiology 
 Rhythm Nation 
 Save of the Month 
 Staten Island Corner 
 US VS THEM 
 Xray Vision 
 
 Lectures 
 About Us 
 Disclaimer 
    #site-navigation  
 
 
  .c12  
  #header.row  
 
 
 
 
 Case of the Month 
 Case Of the Month 8 – Presentation 
 
        by  James Hassel  •  February 20, 2016  •  2 Comments   
 
 
 We have ourselves yet another fresh mystery case yearning to be milked of its knowledge, so take a gander and see if you know what’s going on: 
   
 A 52 year-old undomiciled man comes to your ED complaining of 1 month of decreased appetite and fatigue. He says he constantly feels tired and not like himself.  He also states he frequently finds bruises on his legs and gum bleeding. He reports recent ankle and knee pain with more difficulty walking. He denies fevers/chills, cough, chest pain, trouble breathing, N/V/D, or any other symptoms. He has never had these symptoms in the past. He otherwise does not provide any further history. 
   
 PMH: Denies 
 PSH: Denies 
 Meds: None 
 All: NKDA 
 SH: 3 beers/day, about 4 cigs/day, no other drug use.  Lives on the streets. 
   
 ROS: Negative aside from above 
   
 PE: 
 Vitals – Normal 
 Gen – Nontoxic, lying in bed, alert and oriented 
 HEENT – Severe gingivitis with thickened gums and oozing blood. No palatal petechiae. Dry mucous membranes aside from the oozing blood. Mild conjunctival erythema. No nystagmus. 
 Skin – Mulitple non-palpable purpura and petechiae seen over extremities and trunk.  Skin is thickened in many of the same areas. No other rashes are appreciated. 
 Extremities – large areas of ecchymosis and swelling over L ankle and R knee, tender to palpation, no warmth or signs of infection. Mild effusions in both affected joints. 
 The remainder of the exam is unremarkable, including a full neurologic exam 
   
 Labs: 
 CBC – WBC 8.0, Hgb 10.1, platelets 240 
 CMP – WNL 
 Coags – PT 10.1, aPTT 28 
   
 CXR – No acute findings 
 Extremity x-rays – Diffuse osteoporosis with no visualized fractures.  No periosteal elevation 
 EKG – Normal sinus without any ST changes 
   
 So what do you think? Do you have an idea what might be afflicting this patient? If so, respond with your differential diagnosis, the further workup you would obtain, and what your management might entail. Best response gets this month’s glory. Happy sleuthing! 
   
 
   
   
   
 The following two tabs change content below. Bio Latest Posts 
 
 
 
 
 James Hassel  /.ts-fab-header  
 4th Year EM-IM Resident at SUNY Downstate/Kings County Hospital 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Latest posts by James Hassel  ( see all ) 
 
 
 
 Case Of the Month 11 – Answer  - June 28, 2016 
 
 
 Case of the Month 11 – Presentation  - June 5, 2016 
 
 
 Case Of the Month 10 – Answer  - May 12, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Share this: Email Twitter Print 
 
 Related 
    .entry-content  
 
  .entry  
  #post-10178  
 
 Post navigation 
 ← Morning Report: The Anion Gap 
 Too Ticked Off To Be Bored – Review → 
  #posts-pagination  
 
 
			2 comments for “ Case Of the Month 8 – Presentation ”		 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
						edenkim 					 
 
						February 21, 2016 at 4:26 pm					 
 
 Ddx for non-thrombocytopenic purpura/petechiae, include infectious, non-infectious, and congenital causes. in this case I’d say it’s probably not a congenital cause like a hemophilia if this has never happened until now. infection seems unlikely as he has no other symptoms and labs are unremarkable. it also seems like he has hemarthroses, which usually indicates trauma or coagulation disorder. top on my differential is scurvy, then vwf, autoimmune disorders and less likely leukemia. 
 i’d send ana, vwf, ristocetin, maybe do a smear, admit, and in the mean time start him on ETOH withdrawal protocol, supplement with vitamin c, thiamine and folate. 
 
 
 Reply   
 
 
  #comment-##  
 
 
 
   
 
 
						Amir 					 
 
						February 21, 2016 at 4:56 pm					 
 
 Alcoholic and homeless 
Gingiva and joint involvement 
Depression symptoms  
 Diagnosis: Scurvy 
 D/d: Vasculitis and autoimmune disorders 
Lymphoma/leukaemia  
 Ix: plasma, leucocyte or urinary vitamin c levels. 
 Rx: Alcohol deaddiction 
Ascorbic acid 500mg 4-5 times a day for at least 1 week 
 
 
 Reply   
 
 
  #comment-##  
  .commentlist  
 
 Leave a Reply  Cancel reply   
 Your email address will not be published. Comment   Name   
 Email   
 Website   
   
 
   Notify me of follow-up comments by email.   Notify me of new posts by email.   
  #respond  
  #comments .comments-area  
  #primary  
 
 Follow Us!  BEGIN SOCIAL MEDIA CONTACTS  
 
 
  END SOCIAL MEDIA CONTACTS  
 Subscribe! 
 
 Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. 
   
 
							Email Address						 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search the Site 
 
 Search for: 
 
 
 
 Top Posts & Pages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								Rhythm Nation November 22, 2015							 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								EM-Critical Care: Listen to the Bass Go Boom...							 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								Case of the Month - December 2016							 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
								So bored, I climbed Kilimanjaro (Altitude Sickness)							 
 
 
 
 Lecture Library   
 Login 
 
 
 Username 
 
 
 
 Password 
 
 
  Remember Me 
 
 
 
 
 Register Lost Password 
 February 2016 
 
 
 M 
 T 
 W 
 T 
 F 
 S 
 S 
 
 
 
 
 « Jan 
   
 Mar » 
 
 
 
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
 
 
 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
 
 
 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
 
 
 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
 
 
 29 
   
 
 
    #secondary.widget-area  
    #main.row  
    #page.grid  
 
 
 
 
 Copyright © 2016  The Original Kings of County . All Rights Reserved. 
 The Magazine Basic Theme by  bavotasan.com . 
  .c12  
  .row  
  #footer-content.grid  
  #footer  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Send to Email Address 
 
 Your Name 
 
 Your Email Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cancel 
 
				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			 
 
				Email check failed, please try again			 
 
				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
