GOOGLE CAROUSEL The Trauma Professional's Blog Comparison of Cervical Spine Stabilization A reader recently asked what the optimal method for inline stabilization is. We’ve been pondering this question for nearly 30 years. In 1983, trauma surgeons at UCLA looked at a number of devices available at that time and tested them on normal volunteers. They measured neck motion to see which was “best.” Here’s what they found: Soft collar - In general, this decreased rotation by 8 degrees but insignificantly protected against flexion and extension. Basically, this keeps your neck warm and little else. Hard collars - A variety of collars available in that era were tested. They all allowed about 8% flexion, 18% lateral movement, and 2% rotation. The Philadelphia collar allowed the least extension. Sandbags and tape - Surprisingly, this was the best. It allowed no flexion and only a few percent movement in any other direction. The Mayo clinic compared four specific hard collars in 2007 (Miami J, Miami J with Occian back, Aspen, Philadelphia). They found that the Miami J and Philadelphia collars reduced neck movement the best. The Miami J with or without the Occian back provided the best relief from pressure. The Aspen allowed more movement in all axes. And finally, the halo vest is the gold standard. These tend to be used rarely and in very special circumstances. Bottom line: For EMS : Rigid collar per your protocol is the standard. In a pinch you can use good old tape and sandbags with excellent results. For physicians : The Miami J provides the most limitation of movement. If the collar will be needed for more than a short time, consider the well-padded Occian back Miami J (see below). Related posts: The soft cervical collar Is applying or removing the collar dangerous? References: Efficacy of cervical spine immobilization methods. J Trauma 23(6):461-465, 1983. Range-of-motion restriction and craniofacial tissue-interface pressure from four cervical collars. J Trauma 63(5):1120, 1126, 2007. Tweet Posted 9 months ago 28 notes • View comments Tagged: Cervical spine , immobilization , collar , miami j , aspen , . START NOTES mperra liked this komikbookgeek liked this silent-as-a-lamb liked this rachiemac reblogged this from regionstraumapro and added: Rarely encounter an appropriately applied C collar to my ER patients. rachiemac liked this youwish1428 liked this amna-7 liked this marfoirdraguin liked this dogemd liked this gyppygirl2021 liked this a-ghost-of-a-good-mood liked this solorapter56 reblogged this from first-on-scene solorapter56 liked this coollhandluke reblogged this from first-on-scene somuchbiggerontheinside liked this rasgar-el-velo liked this buthaina83 reblogged this from medschoolmanic buthaina83 liked this fotovivon reblogged this from medschoolmanic first-on-scene reblogged this from regionstraumapro fotovivon liked this coolrobertocoste liked this drcaro-ccm reblogged this from medschoolmanic drcaro-ccm liked this medschoolmanic reblogged this from regionstraumapro and added: I thought cervical collar guidelines were changed back in 2014. Am I just imagining this? supergirlnightwing reblogged this from regionstraumapro kielisan reblogged this from regionstraumapro kielisan liked this regionstraumapro posted this END NOTES View the discussion thread Blog comments powered by Disqus The Trauma Professional's Blog provides information on injury-related topics to trauma professionals. It is written by Michael McGonigal MD, the Director of Trauma Services at Regions Hospital in St. Paul, MN. Regions is a Level I Adult Trauma Center, and has partnered with Gillette Children's Specialty Hospital to become the first Level I Pediatric Trauma Center in the Upper Midwest. Want to see a post on a specific topic? Click here or go to www.thetraumapro.com/ask . You can also email me at TheTraumaPro@gmail.com To view the Terms of Service for this site, click here . Start of StatCounter Code for Tumblr End of StatCounter Code for Tumblr Please submit your request for a specific topic. IE users: please click the Search button for best results Indexed Archive Tumblr Archive Follow on Tumblr Latest Tweets RSS feed Random Archive Mobile © 2010–2016 Powered by Tumblr
